thick and chewy thin and crispy big and
crusty no I'm not talking about the guys
I've dated I'm talking about pizza
today I'm making gluten-free flatbread
with homemade ricotta homemade pesto and
arugula it's gonna be awesome
now I love pizza it's one of my favorite
comfort foods and when you go
gluten-free it's hard to find a great
pizza dough so I'm going to show you a
fantastic versatile pizza dough that you
can make at home yourself I'm going to
start blooming some yeast I've got a
half a cup of warm water and I'm going
to add my packet of yeast you don't want
your water too hot the yeast will
actually die so you want to have it nice
and lukewarm with a little Jacuzzi for
your yeast and you want to have some
party favors for you so you add a little
sugar and they're gonna munch they're
gonna have some midnight munchies hey
guy this green just give this a good
stir and set that aside I'm going to add
3/4 of a cup of my gluten-free flour in
there and to that I'm going to add
recorder's of a cup of tapioca starch
and what I'm trying to do here is I'm
trying to mimic the gluten that's in
pizza dough and next I'm going to add
some dried buttermilk powder you can
also use nonfat milk powder and what
that's going to do is add some protein
to your dough gluten is the bad protein
we want to replace it with good protein
do that I'm going to add a teaspoon of
xanthan gum and my all-purpose
gluten-free flour has xanthan gum in it
if yours doesn't add two teaspoons in
here to that I'm going to add a teaspoon
of agar agar powder you can also use
unflavored gelatin this also is going to
help with the hey we're gluten but we're
not you see see what we're doing here so
to my mixer I'm going to add my yeast my
apple cider vinegar and 2 teaspoons of
olive oil why I'm adding the apple cider
vinegar is because it's going to make
your crust nice and crispy so I'm going
to slowly add my yeast
all right so it's been a couple minutes
and this looks perfect and this is what
you want it's going to break apart not
like normal pizza dough but don't worry
so I've got some extra tapioca starch
here that I'm just going to dust my
board with just going to take my dough
and kind of just give it a good couple
needs and you don't need to let this
rest normal pizza dough with regular
gluten you have to let it rest you have
to let the proteins relax this one you
don't so it makes it better because you
can have pizza in your face quicker when
I was first diagnosed with celiac I
freaked out pizza is one of my favorite
foods of all time and it was really hard
to find good pizza dough but nowadays
everybody's going gluten-free and so
it's a lot easier to find really yummy
deliverable pizza but it's a lot better
when you make it at home so just like
pie dough you're going to want to roll
this over your rolling pin very gently
otherwise it's going to break just take
my pizza crust and lay it out like so so
I've got my pizza dough here and I'm
going to take some olive oil and just
give it a good drizzle you want this
flatbread pizza to be nice and crusty
just got that just take your hand take
your salt just a little bit of salt
pepper and I'm going to grab some fresh
thyme and I like to have a lot of flavor
in my pizza dough itself because I feel
like sometimes pizza lacks flavor all
right so just a few few more so this is
going to go in the oven at 400 degrees
for 10 to 15 minutes
so now that my pizzas in the oven I'm
gonna get started on my pesto grab my
parsley and normally parsley is not a
traditional ingredient in pesto but my
mom and my grandmother used to always
make pesto with fresh parsley and I just
think it adds such a beautiful
brightness to it to that I'm going to
add a bunch of fresh basil I'm going to
add two garlic cloves and I'm gonna let
this go I'm gonna grab a lemon and I'm
adding the lemon just to prevent
browning because the basil and the
parsley will bruise and it also adds a
really nice clean brightness to your
pesto and now I'm going to add about 1/2
a cup of olive oil so just let this run
for about 30 seconds I think my pizza
dough is done look at that I have a
magical pizza wizard I'm going to take a
little bit of my pesto and smear it on
top and I'm gonna add some homemade
ricotta if you want to learn how to make
ricotta it's so easy I've got another
video another how-to video on how to
make your own fresh ricotta and I like
using fresh cheese because on this pizza
I'm using a lot of fresh ingredients
trying to make it light crispy thin and
smear it around and then I like to take
some fresh arugula it's one of my
favorite greens because it's got this
peppery spicy quality to it that just
goes so well with the sweetness of the
ricotta and the Urbanus of the pesto so
to finish my pizza I like to shave a
little bit of Parmesan cheese on top so
I keep talking about this pizza and now
I'm hungry so I'm going to dig in what I
like to do is just cut this into pieces
and this is great to serve at any party
and don't worry about this being perfect
this is a very rustic dish
happy dance that is so delicious while
you get the garlic and the basil and the
chewiness of the bread but a little bit
of crispness at the same time add any
toppings that you want but you guys
seriously try this combination mine
blowed my name is Alex this has been
gluten-free with Alex T and I hope to
see you guys next week